over the last few years retail media
networks have been growing and gaining
market share in the U.S digital
advertising world and are forecasted to
surpass 60 billion dollars by 2024
contributing 19.1 percent to Total
digital ad spend
to understand why this is the case let's
first look at what's happening in the
advertising industry
advertisers always want to intercept
potential customers at different stages
in their buying journey to make them
aware of their products and ideally
convert them into actual customers in
order to do this in a cost-effective way
they want to get in front of an audience
that has the highest likelihood of
converting that's to say this audience
is within their target market segment
they also want to do this in an
environment that is brand safe
in other words they want to make sure
that their ads are not served alongside
content that might be damaging for the
brand when social media started taking
off and had the ability to gather huge
amount of information on each person
regarding their demographics what they
like and what they don't this created a
great opportunity for advertisers to
better Target exactly the customers they
want and so deliver their message in the
most cost effective way however this has
been changing over the last few years
new policies and privacy measures have
been implemented that's preventing
social media networks from tracking
customers across the web or through
third-party cookies and thereby
hindering their ability to gather more
data and serve more targeted ads this
has both affected the social media
networks and how they work and it has
also made advertising more expensive for
Brands because now they need to
advertise to a broader audience that is
not highly targeted and hope more people
will convert to make it feasible a lot
of retailers started realizing the great
opportunity that lies here think about
it Brands want to get in front of an
audience that's interested in buying
their products and want to do this in a
brand safe environment which exactly
matches customers browsing a multi-brand
Retailer's website looking for a product
with the intention to buy it and this
website is completely brand safe as
there is no harmful content whatsoever
served alongside the products so these
retailers came up with a new channel for
advertising called the retail media
networks in a retail media Network the
retailer owns first party data that has
been gathered from previous purchase
data from their own customers the
retailer offers interested advertisers
for example suppliers and Brands and
advertising service where they can
utilize this data to create targeted
campaigns for their products on the
different digital channels owned by the
retailer this is done in the form of
different ad products such as sponsored
products sponsored Brands display ads
search ads or email ads when the
customer sees the ad on the Retailer's
property and completes the purchase data
from this order gets fed back into the
ad Network and used to optimize future
campaigns which creates a closed loop
attribution that makes the network even
more efficient in the future for example
when a cpg brand advertises on TV or
social media it's hard to know which
proportion of sales came through which
campaign or Channel as those Brands sell
through third-party retailers and don't
sell directly to Consumers but when they
advertise on a certain retail media
Network they can directly see how many
sales transactions resulted from each
specific campaign through their
partnership with the retailer in this
case and this helps them create better
campaigns in the future this has made
retail media networks a win-win solution
for retailers and advertisers
advertisers get to Target potential
consumers at the later stage in their
buying Journey where they have a high
buying intent and retailers get to tweak
their traditional business model and add
a high margin Revenue stream to their
business especially when we find out
that among the high spending advertisers
in the world are cpg companies such as
Procter Gamble and Unilever
thank you